And they would have old quizzes and a file that you could study or they would be willing to usually help you.
And we had the CQ at night, which would last from, after we'd get back from evening chow, would last from like 7 to 10, the best I remember.
And that was supposed to be a quiet time.
We had to keep our doors open as fish.
We couldn't close the doors.
And they were still upper class getting you to do chores and stuff.
But it was supposed to be.
called the quarters and the quiet time.
And a freshman couldn't, a fish couldn't have radio?
No, oh no radio, nothing on the walls, just the basic books, no rugs, nothing extra, no curtains.
Did other members of your outfit, sophomores and up, did they have record players and so forth making noise?
A&M and the Corps has always been big on class.
But you have to earn everything you get at A&M.
Some of my people or people that I graduated from high school with went to Texas and the very first day they walked on Texas campus, down at Austin, they could do anything that the seniors could do.
There was no, you know, they just could do anything.
They didn't have to earn it.
One of the beauties of A&M is
preparing you for life, you have to earn what you get and I like that about A&M.
Consequences for your actions and that was one of the basic principles that I learned at A&M that I've carried with me all my life.
You have to work for it and so the class distinction, each time you moved up to a class you were able to have more things in your room, you had more free time, you had a better uniform, you had
had just more privileges, they called it, class privileges.
Do you remember anybody giving you advice on how to go about studying, how to go about where to sit in class or anything like that?
Well, there were always hints of that about sitting up close like everybody gets.
And I'm sure all 300 in that class were told the same thing.
There weren't 300 seats on the front row.
But that advice was given.
They didn't have a course as far as I know like they do now about helping incoming students.
The emphasis wasn't there at fish camps or anything like that to the degree that it is now about helping you make that adjustment and what to do with that area that I remember.
What did you and your buddies assume were the unspoken guidelines about going to class and behavior in class?
Well, we didn't miss class.
We did not miss class.
It wasn't even considered.
And I won't say that we didn't sleep in class at times, because we did, but we were there.
And we were expected to be there and just took it for granted.
That's where it's supposed to be.
That's what we're paying all this good money for.
And so that was hardly a question at that time because so many of the exams in those days were taken a lot from lectures, more so than the book, it seemed like.
And as far as you recall, were most of the people that taught your classes, were they full-time faculty members?
As far as I knew, they were.
Yes, sir.
And as that first semester developed, what were, what was a tough course and a less tough course that you took?
Well, the accounting was,
It was hard on me.
It just didn't make much seeing all that sense off of debits and credits and some of the things that they called debits seemed like ought to be a credit to me.
And so I could just never quite get the hang of that and didn't stay around long enough to see if I could or not.
But at that time I didn't appreciate history as much as I do now.
English was always easy for me because we had a great high school.
teachers and math was easy and those type courses.
And you don't remember any of those first semester teachers by name, plus or minus?
I don't, but you're one of them that I had sooner or later in history, I'm sure Dr. Monroe.
I can't remember what semester it was though.
You and me both were a lot younger then I think.
That was about three years ago.
What about nicknames?
Did you and your buddies acquire nicknames?
Just about everybody had a nickname back in those days.
What was yours?
Scooter.
baseball days and I was playing shortstop and Phil Rizzuto of the Yankees was a shortstop that they called Scooter Rizzuto.
And so mainly because of my baseball skills and scooping up.
And that got translated down here.
It did.
It did and picked up.
What about some of the other good ones in your outfit?
Well, Vid Rabbit, we had a guy, Steve Reeves, a great ag that passed away a few years ago.
They loved Texas A&M.
Steve Lover,
Reeves and we called him Red Rabbit.
He had real big ears and he was red-headed and so almost every person did have a nickname.
Do you remember any faculty members, teachers that you had that had nicknames?
Well, there were several I remember and if I heard them, I would remember them.
I don't remember them right off the top of my head.
Tell you the truth.
How soon did you... What was your... I didn't get one.
You didn't?
But those apparently weren't created in the 60s for faculty.
It was the people that had been here longer
Like Judge, somebody over in business was Judge something or other.
And in English, Brooks Cofer, a local lawyer, his father, D.B.
Cofer, when he wrote on the board, he would clean his hand on his coat.
So D.B.
Cofer became Dusty Butt Cofer.
That's good.
How soon was...
How soon did you and your buddy Fish start any pranks or jokes?
Well, being small, I was one of the, in my outfit, I was probably the first one called upon to pull pranks.
And I'll never forget the first one.
It was probably after we'd been there about three weeks, one night at Chow.
I sat at the table in Duncan Metzall, 3,600 other cadets,
one big open area fed family style and lined up in each table, had about eight, 10 people at each table.
And I was at the table with my commanding officer, Don Thompson from Luling, Texas.
And one night he says, Fishcocks.
I said, yes, sir.
He said, I want you to start carrying two feet of twine around with you everywhere you go from now on.
So that night, I went back in my room.
I cut off exactly two feet of twine.
I better measured it 50 times because I figured that was some of the test and didn't know what in the world he wanted it for or anything.
But I put that twine in my pocket.
I carried it with me everywhere I went for two weeks and he didn't say anything about it.
Finally, one night, Charlie says, Fish Cox, yes, sir.
You have that twine with you?
Yes, sir.
I thought I was going to get a reward or something for it, you know.
And he says, I want you to go tie Mr. Dougherty's leg to the table.
Well, Mr. Daugherty was one of his senior buddies.
We called him Jungle Jim Daugherty.
I never saw the guy smile, didn't have a conscience, and he was later went into the Marines and I think became a mercenary.
I mean, that's the type of guy he was.
He was, we were scared to death of him, Jungle Jim Daugherty.
And so, this was the first time that any of us had been called upon to pull a prank on an upperclassman.
So it was, I didn't know what in the world, you know, I didn't know they did this all the time.
But anyway, so I scoot out from my table and get down on my all fours.
And here I am, 18 years old, paying good money to come to Texas A&M, crawling down between these tables to about five rows up to where Doherty's table was.
I went in at the end where my fish buddies were because I knew they wouldn't tell on me.
So I crawled down to where he's sitting and I pulled that twine out of my pocket and I'm shaking like a leaf.
And I finally get around his leg and around the chair
And right before I tie it, all eight chairs moved back from the table.
And I'm sitting under there like a rat on my all fours and Daugherty reaches under and grabs me by the collar and scoots me out on the floor, picks me up off the floor, holding me about six inches off the ground, about six inches from his nose, chewing me out up one side and down the other.
I mean, I was...
shaking, and again, being from New Boston, nobody ever talking to me like that.
And in front of 3,600 people, they could see it, you know, it was pretty embarrassing for a little country boy, and I, so my commanding officer could tell, and he was about to get to me, and I was standing at attention, saying, yeah, yeah, yeah, yes sir, no, no, no, no, sir, I'll never do it again, sir, and going through this, and he called me back to my, back to the table, and as, as it would have it,
we were having soup that night and I was sitting between two sophomores and I would dip down in that soup and I was shaking so bad, the soup was splashing out.
All the sophomores, all their uniform.
And so that was one of the longest nights of my career and the first prank that we had, any of us in our outfit had ever been asked to do.
And so I kind of became known as the prankster.
They were always asking me to do stuff and one of the biggest things was burning bibs.
And that's where you would, the upperclassmen would have the bibs in their lap and the freshmen, the fish, had to have their bib tucked into their collar, their shirt.
And so similar to the description a while ago, you would sneak down the alleyway, go in at the end of the table and go down and with the matches that you were required to carry around with you, strike a match and light the individual's bib that's, or napkin that's in his lap.
And were these paper napkins?
They were paper napkins and
And by the time it would flare up, you could get away and back at your table, but they would jump up and look around trying to see who did it.
They'd be beating out the fire and pouring water on it and all this, and I got to be kind of an expert at that.
In fact, one time, and I'd never heard of this being done before or since, but one night I was burning an upperclassman's bib,
Instead of running off, I just stayed under there because they never looked under there because you'd be stupid to stay under there.
So I just stayed under there until it was all over.
He sat back down.
I took my napkin off of my neck, laid it in his lap real gently and burned his bib twice in one meal.
So that's some of the kind of stuff that we used to pull.
And there's several more in my book.
some of the stuff you're asking about that kind of... What about, did y'all ever do anything to upperclassmen's food?
I don't remember us doing that.
Some of the outfits probably did, and different outfits were different, but I don't remember doing anything to their food.
And we'd have deal fights in the mess hall,
You know, just throwing the bread, the deal.
We'd just sail it across the mess hall, get in a deal fight with another outfit or something.
All right, that first semester, describe as much as you can the routine for your first football games.
Describe what it was like.
Okay, and can I back up just one second?
Maybe this might be interesting about the mess hall.
I'm sure some others have already told you, but there were four things that when
to remember at that time.
And I'll see if I can remember.
I know when I was to run Hot Corner, you had to listen to all the announcements and you had to remember them and be able to repeat them all to anybody who might ask you and to give meal service to the upperclassmen.
And the fourth thing is eat if you had time.
So I've eaten on top of the table, under the table,
Usually, if they found out you liked something in particular, you never got to eat it.
We used to have what was called Boston Pie back then, and I called it New Boston Pie because that's where I was from, but I never got any because it was so good.
And if they found out you didn't like something like spinach or liver, well, they would make sure that you had double portions of it.
Now, you all had cush questions?
Oh, yes.
What were some of your favorite?
Oh, well, one of them I remember that...
they would ask you how many pounds of bird manure shoveled off Duncan Messall in 1939.
And you know, you'd try, you had never heard, so you'd come up with something and say, well you stupid fish, it wasn't even built until 1941 or whatever the date was.
So, but it was a lot of campusology questions and they were tough, but it made us Aggies.
I wouldn't trade for that, that's some of the greatest times because it was our roots.
And back then we were really big on trying to share about real stories about true Aggies and heroes and what it means and the heritage that we had as Aggies and I always took it seriously and remember that.
During those first weeks and months, did you think about dropping out and going back?
Oh yes, oh yes, many times I,
And I would say, why didn't I go to that junior college in Texarkana like most of my buddies did?
Did you talk to anybody about it?
I never got to that point.
When it was really tough, and it was after they had started beating us and all, and I had ridden home, and I was telling my parents a little bit about what was going on, you know, and thought I'd get a little sympathy, and I did for my mom, but I'll never forget
the first time my dad came down for a ball game and my parents came down and so they came over to the outfit and they were meeting some of the upperclassmen for the first time and Nick Walton was a senior from Beaumont that lives across from him and he's the one that used to beat me as much as anybody and so we were standing out in formation outside the dorm getting ready to go to the ball game and there was a little slack time there and parents were around and my dad went up to Nick Walton
and I could see him and hear him and he was acting real serious and he got right up in his face and he said, what's this I hear about you whipping my boy?
And Walton was, of course it caught him off guard and he was just kind of stuttering and stammering and my dad got his finger and poked it in his chest and he said, well I just want to tell you one thing, you're not whipping him enough.
So from that day on I knew not to complain anymore about
about the way I was being treated by the upperclassmen.
During that first semester, about how often did you and your folks write?
Well, my mom was good about writing.
And I would say, as far as my responding back, probably not more than once every two weeks, maybe, or something of that nature.
And we didn't call much.
We had one phone in the door.
One phone, we didn't have cell phones.
Now they have two or three phones in every dorm room, it seems like.
But one of the toughest things was being the whistle, I mean, the phone jock.
There were four dorms, four floors.
You know what I mean?
Over 200 people we're talking about, or closer to 400 maybe.
And where was your post office box?
In MSC.
In MSC is where mine was.
The phone jock, you know, with one phone, whoever was closest to it,
a fish was assigned to answer it.
And it might be for somebody on the fourth floor.
So they'd answer it, run upstairs.
You had to meet everybody that you didn't know.
Finally get to the person's room.
They'd come down.
By that time they'd hung up and you'd be in trouble for calling them up there or whatever.
So it was just one of those differences.
Alright, let's go back to football.
Ball game.
Yeah.
Just a great time.
I can't even remember who we played the first, but one of the regular members I have, we didn't win a lot of ball games back in those days.
We didn't outscore the other team, but it was the year that we were playing Tech, and we were ahead, and Tech scored with about a minute to go or less, and we went down, and all the fish were out on the, we were down on the field ahead of time to carry the yellow eaters off,
and congratulate the team, and then Tech scores.
We're still already down there, and lo and behold, they kick off to Hugh McElhenney, and I believe it was Hugh McElhenney, and he runs it all the way back for a touchdown, and we beat the Raiders.
It was a great, exciting time, as you can imagine, especially for those of us that had played sports.
It really was exciting.
So standing up, everybody a little bit more disciplined back in those days as far as humping it.
I mean everybody looked the same.
You really, you just didn't barely lean over.
You had your knees together and your head up and your back straight and you were really hollering.
And I mean it was loud even though we had 8,000 less students and didn't have all the double decks and all that.
It was a horseshoe and it'd be loud enough to stop ball games.
Right, now that first year, though, you didn't have a date here very much, did you, for a game?
No, not at all.
Some of the upperclassmen did, and some of the guys from Houston did.
And New Boston, I didn't know anybody here and didn't have a way to get around, so I didn't do.
What kind of explanation did anybody give you all about Yale practice?
Do you remember?
I don't remember any explanation about it.
I remember... And it was held in the stadium.
It was.
It was in the stadium.
And a great time.
Going over there and back is outfit.
You would stay with your buddies.
And coming back, you would have to stay in the streets.
You couldn't be on the sidewalk.
And of course, nobody could be on the grass except the seniors.
Again, part of the privilege rank aspect of it.
But that was...
A time when a lot of the upperclassmen would haze you on the way back and give you a hard time.
But then also a lot of them from other outfits would drop handles with you on the way back too.
So you got to meet some upperclassmen from other outfits.
During the game itself, since you didn't have a date, you and a bunch of your buddies were together, where did you all end up standing?
Well we, of course again, privileged by class.
The seniors were on the 50-yard line, juniors, you know, on down on the 40, the 30, and finally the fish, we were down at the very end on the goal line or the horseshoe area with the worst seats, of course, and, of course, the way it should be and the way I like it.
Did y'all try any jokes, pranks, good bull during the games?
No, no, no, not us, not at all.
We were told to keep one eye on the game and one eye on the yellow here.
And that's pretty much, there wasn't any kind of goofing around or trying to pull some of these other colleges.
It'd be like another college and bouncing beach balls around in the stadiums.
None of that.
You did help carry Yelp Eaters to the?
Fish pond, yes.
Another thing about the Yelp practices that I really think they're missing out on today and I wish they had more of is that we'd have Yelp practice on Tuesday nights also, which was a little bit more informal.
It was just the students there and that's where you really learned the yells and you had time to go over them and they'd talk to you about what it was really about and that was my favorite yell practice in all honesty.
The midnight yell is the famous one, but the yell practice during the week is the one where we really got down to business and right after chow, we'd all march over, the yell leaders wouldn't even have on their whites, they'd have on their senior boots and roll up their sleeves.
Did you and your buddies ever deliberately yell the wrong words?
No.
You always said the right thing.
Yes, yeah.
And some difference in the yells, a little bit in the way they emphasize some of the words.
It was back in those days, the former spite, for example, it was more former spite, like an exclamation point, rather than former spite, like a question mark they do today, which I don't like.
When the game was over, what did you and your buddies do on a Saturday night?
Well now a lot of my buddies, my fish buddies, if they were from Houston, a lot of them were, they had days.
They were close enough to come and they already had in high school sweethearts and all and a lot of them would go out and fish Jerry France and I didn't have a date.
We'd sit there watching all of our buddies walk by the window, tears running down our eyes listening to Ray Charles or somebody singing some sad song
And now I, you know, I know a lot of this went on, but I personally did not partake.
I didn't drink or smoke and that kind of stuff because of my Christian background.
But of course a lot did.
And I would go to outfit parties where they would have alcohol but not participate.
So I was pretty quick.
Where were those held?
You know, I can't tell you.
I don't know.
I really don't remember.
I just remember I'd always go.
But were they held in the pasture somewhere?
No, they were at some lounge or something I guess most of the time it seems like.
It was a building.
Our outfit didn't have anything.
Did you go on a court trip the first year?
Yes, two court trips.
Of course back in those days you'd either go to Austin, Fort Worth,
and you'd go to two of those a year depending on which one was out of town.
That was a great time and you had to get there whatever way you could.
How'd you get there?
Well, most of the time it was with buddies.
I didn't have a car, but a few of my buddies did and ride with them.
There was a lot of hitchhiking went on back in those days though and I would hitchhike on occasion too, especially going home.
I would hitchhike all the time.
Describe that.
Well, it wasn't a scary time.
I wouldn't hitchhike today, and I wouldn't recommend anybody do this, but back then it was just a different America and a different time.
About how long did it take to get to New Boston?
Well, normally if you were driving, it would take four and a half hours.
But if you were hitchhiking?
Now, if you're hitchhiking, it might take seven, something like that.
What route did you normally follow?
Well...
the route that we were supposed to follow would be like to go to Buffalo, well to North Results, Jewett, Buffalo, Palestine, Tyler, Gilmer, Mount Pleasant, then New Boston.
But one time I went through three states getting home.
And that happened because we're in the four states area.
And my first ride took me to Shreveport, which was Louisiana, which is just about 90 miles from New Boston.
Then going from Shreveport to New Boston, they had to go through Arkansas, Texarkana, Arkansas, and then back into Texas.
So I went through three states to get to the same.
Share some interesting hitchhiking experience, as you recall, positive and or negative.
Okay, well, one that didn't actually happen to me, but it was John Stevens, and I'll talk about it in there, but he was hitchhiking to New Boston.
John Stevens said,
in San Angelo area now, but he's a great, great man, great ag teacher.
He was hitchhiking home, and he had his dog, his bird dog, he just had puppies.
And so he had all these nine puppies in the box, hidden in the ditch.
And he was out there hitchhiking, and this couple stopped, and he said, do you mind if I carry my dog with me, you know?
And it wasn't only his dog, but it was nine puppies too.
and I carried him all the way to New Boston, where his family had moved to Boston, and that's how I got to know John.
I didn't know him in high school, but never any kind of dangerous time.
I hitchhiked all the way up into my military career, though.
What about any amusing hitchhiking experiences?
No, I can't remember.
A lot of them, I'm sure, if it was for any distance of time, I'd probably go to sleep.
Just the first time I'd... Any times when somebody was truly kind and thoughtful to help you?
I don't recall.
I don't recall the particular...
So any special stories, though, about your memories of court trips, some fun things or unusual things?
Only that in Dallas one year, it seemed like I think there was about 17 of us stayed in one room, you know, and here we are all trying the next morning to, instead of being able to enjoy it like most
colleges, ball game day.
We're up early having to get our uniforms on and ready and 17 I was shaving in one sink and getting ready.
That's the only thing I can remember that was just halfway.
Do you remember in any town any negative?
I never have, no I do not.
You know later on as, yeah later
You might not be ready for this.
We'll get that later.
In the first year or two, did anybody help you with a date at any place?
Yes, and some of my buddies, they would get us the dates, usually some of the high school girls that they'd gone to high school with.
Always just real nice.
I never had a bad experience with any of them.
They were all very nice that they...
And were the young ladies treated appropriately?
Yes.
I would definitely have to say so.
You hear a lot of stories, but the friends that I had, the ones that I ran with, they were, I never saw anybody mistreat a girl, in all honesty.
So you go home Thanksgiving that first year?
Yes, sir.
That was the first time I got to go home.
What did you tell your folks and your friends about A&M?
Well, of course, by that time, I felt like I was probably going to make it.
And of course, they could see a lot of change.
Most of my friends were doing the same thing we did in high school.
But here we were, you know, pretty much good shape and bareheaded and standing pretty tall.
Were you talking proudly about A&M by then?
Yes, sir.
Yes, sir, I was.
I was.
And it had met, when I left high school, hated to leave high school, had gone through 12 years with most of the people in my class.
And I never thought I'd meet anybody that I'd be closer to than them, but sure enough, in just a few months time, going through hard times together, like you do in the Corps of Fish, it's like going, not to the degree, but like, it's like going through POW or being in the war together, it's lifelong friendships when you go through hard times.
That's what was beginning to take place.
As you look back, had some of those friendships already started your fish year?
Oh yes, yes, most definitely.
Yes, and still my closest friends, there's probably seven or eight of us that are still really close, get to see each other quite often, several times a year, and go to the funerals of each of our parents and things like that.
In that era, spring semester didn't end until the end of January.
Yeah, that was one of the tough things back then.
You'd go home for Christmas, and without having finished the semester, which means the entire time you're home for Christmas, you're worried about finals.
The minute you get back, you have to start taking finals.
That was a bad schedule, but that's the way it was.
As you are learning about A&M academically, were there any, did you see anybody cheating?
No, I do not remember.
seeing that and I just, I wasn't paying attention or what, but I mean, it was stressed.
You know, the Aggies don't lie to you to steal, that was believed.
It was more than just a nice saying.
I'm not saying that some didn't, but.
How did your first semester come out academically?
C's and B's, C's and B's, and I was used to making A's and B's and I was used to.
Did you change away from accounting yet?
I'm pretty sure I did that semester.
And then you moved it to?
Personnel management.
Still in the business field.
Did you turn, who did you turn to for academic advice?
Was there?
I know they had counselors and all.
I was not one to go to a professor and talk to them or go to a counselor much.
I just was not used to forcing complaints or asking questions.
I just figured it was up to me to do it.
What did you dream you were going to do, professionally?
Well, all my life, up until I came to the realization I wasn't good enough, of course, the only thing I ever thought about being was a shortstop for the New York Yankees.
And that's the truth.
I didn't grow up always wanting to be a doctor or a fireman or a lawyer, but I always loved people.
I knew that, and I enjoyed helping people and reaching out.
And so I liked the courses that dealt with
management and dealing with supervision and leadership and anything.